Dataset: data2_0.4_5.csv Download data2_0.4_5.csv 

 

1. Load the attached csv file in python. Each row consists of feature 1, feature 2, class label.
 

2. Train two single/double hidden layer deep networks by varying the number of hidden nodes (4, 8, 12, 16) in each layer with 70% training and 30% validation data. Use appropriate learning rate, activation, and loss functions and also mention the reason for choosing the same. Report, compare, and explain the observed accuracy and minimum loss achieved. [0.5+1 mark]
 

3. Visually observe the dataset and design an appropriate feature transformation (derived feature) such that after feature transformation, the dataset can be classified using a minimal network architecture (minimum number of parameters). Design, train this minimal network, and report training and validation errors, and trained parameters of the network. Use 70% training and 30% validation data, appropriate learning rate, activation and loss functions. Explain the final results. [1+1+0.5 marks]
 

Evaluation Process -

Task Response and Task Completion- All the models should be logically sound and have decent accuracy (models with random guessing, frozen and incorrect accuracy, exploding gradients etc. will lead to deduction of marks. Please do a sanity check of your model and results before submission).
There are a lot of subparts, so answer each completely and correctly, as no partial marks will be awarded for partially correct subparts.
Implementation- The model layers, parameters, hyperparameters, evaluation metrics etc. should be properly implemented.
Only fully connected or dense layers are allowed. CNNs/RNNs are strictly not allowed.
Notebooks without output will not be considered for evaluation.
Additional Tips -

Code organization- Please organize your code with correct line spacing and indentation, and add comments to make your code more readable.
Try to give explanations or cite references wherever required.
Use other combinations of hyperparameters to improve model accuracy.
